# An econometric evaluation of the influence of social networks on technology adoption amongst Kenyan smallholder dairy farmers. 
This is my UG Dissertation for the partial fulfilment of BSc Hons Agricultural Economics (submitted May2023). The code here used to produce the dissertation. For any queries please contact me on xancas2001@gmail.com.

## Abstract
"This study evaluates factors influencing Kenyan smallholder dairy farmers’ decision to adopt productivity-enhancing technologies, with a particular focus on identifying the influence of social networks. Dairy farming generates 4% of Kenyan GDP and contributes extensively to the income and food security of 1.8 million smallholders in the country, yet limited uptake of improved breed cattle, improved forages, and vaccination means that dairy productivity is low. This continues to constrain dairy development in the country, impeding nutritional and economic gains, and perpetuates the high greenhouse-gas intensity of Kenyan dairy systems. 

Snowball sampling was used to collect survey data from 255 smallholders across four sites in West Kenya regarding demographic and household characteristics, dairy farming practices, and other external factors, as well as information about the members of farmers’ social networks. Using this data, logistic regression models were constructed to identify the influence of the adoption decisions of farmers’ network members (endogenous effects) and the characteristics of these network members (exogenous effects) on the likelihood of technology adoption. The influence of farmers’ own characteristics and external factors is also investigated.

Farmers’ probability of adopting dairy technologies was found to increase significantly with the number of adopters in their network. This constitutes clear evidence of endogenous effects, i.e. the behaviour of social network members influencing farmers’ adoption decisions. The characteristics of farmers’ network members (e.g., their age, educational attainment), however, did not have a significant influence. Technology-specific barriers to adoption are also identified. 

This study is the first to quantify social network effects in any dairy or Kenyan agricultural system, thus contributing to the literature on how social networks shape technology adoption amongst farmers in developing countries. Findings are of policy relevance as they indicate that social networks could be harnessed for low-cost agricultural extension, and that interventions which facilitate interaction between farmers may spur the dissemination of agricultural technologies through the formation of new network connections. Future research should focus on understanding how to capitalise on these network effects and evaluate different interventions’ impact on social network formation.
This work also provides insights relevant to extension systems in West Kenya, proposing context- and technology-specific recommendations towards dairy development in the area."
